---
title: Affine — A Obisidan Miro Hybrid
date: 2024-02-11
author: Jotham Lim
tags:
  - personal
  - career
draft: true
---

[Affine](https://affine.pro) is a project / knowledge management tool that combines:
- Notion's document stadnardisation & ease of use (block-based / markdown)
- Miro's flexibility (whiteboard, drawing)
- Trello's project management aspects (Kanban)
- Airtable's data handling (Databases)


*Open source*
Unlike Notion, being open-source is a big deal for Affine, and for good reason. It means that:
- Users can self-host the app for free (pending server & maintenance cost)
- The project has longevitiy even if the project collapsed (assuming that users are happy with the latest version  and are willing to commit to customised improvements down the road)
- Data storage is local (great for companies which deals with PII and senstivie data.)

*Relatively Unknowne*
I'm surprised at

*This serves a specific demographic*
Being an Obsidian user for a while, I **crave** the ability to integrate handwritten notes into my workflow. It's a much more intentional, slow and mindful way of thought processing.

Simiarly, I beleive that databases are a superior way of adding order & context to notes compared to tags and folders.

However, plugins like dataview, Canvas, and Excalidraw are limited in so many ways. In that sense, Affine really scratches that itch — a PKM system that is all encompassing.

*Pricing*
US$7/mth is surprisingly reasonable for the pro versio. If you are working alone, or in a group less than three, the free version is accomodating as well. And if scaling is an issue, users are alwyas given a choice to self-host.

###### Thoguhts
This app suffers the same problem as apps with the lieks of Capacities, AnyType and Scrintal — it tries to do everything, and hence, it sucks at everything.

Affine, like many others, fall into the "all-in-one" app category. User's are expected to use Affine as a task manager, document creation & organisation, and collaboration tool. I wouldn't be surprised if they treid to inject a [calendar](https://www.notion.so/product/calendar) & [email application](https://techcrunch.com/2024/02/09/notion-acquires-privacy-focused-productivity-platform-skiff/) as part of their roadmap.

It's an app category that's plagued with:
- Feature creep
- Vendor Lock-in
- Propeitrary storage formats
- Unsustainable pricing models

Most importantly, an app that tried to be everything, will struggle with becoming anything.

Beyond the product directionL
- The whiteboard-ing capabilities is crippled by a lack of iPad OS & apple pencil support. Nobody draws with a mouse/trackpad.
- It lacks the depth of real-time collaboration opporunities of the likes of Miro and Notion
- The app still feels like an Alpha stage product — from the font choices, UI/UX, and the incocnsistencies how information is presented between notes & edgeless mode.

##### Stop trying to be Notion

I would come out and say that Notion is outside the norm.
- As a word processing tool, Google Docs and Craft is better.
- AS a note-taking tool, Obsidian is better.
- As a database tool, Airtable is better.
- As a project management tool, Jira is better.

However, Notion is still a highly successful company because they don't need to be best-in-class. They
